---
layout: post
title:  "How to Survive the IB Diploma"
author: miyu.osamura
categories: [ DP, Study Tips ]
image: https://cs001.ibstyle.tk/res/000002-tb.png
featured: false
description: "In this article, I would like to talk about how to survive THE IB DIPLOMA"
---

Hello, everyone! 

In this article, I would like to talk about how to survive “THE IB DIPLOMA” 

When you are doing an **IB DP** (Diploma Program) or **MYP** (Middle Years Program), one of the most essential skills you need in order to survive these IB programs are to know how to cope with stress and how to deal with it.

So… what is stress anyways?

According to the cambridge dictionary it says: stress is a great worry caused by difficult situation, or something that causes this condition: sleeping difficulties, minor pains, headaches.

BUT for IB students, stress means more than that. 

IB version of stress is…

* a great fear of failing 
* SO MUCH THINGS TO DO
* but in the end you procastinate
* no time to get any works done
* 24 hours isn’t enough
* regret
* why did I choose IB
* no social life
* no having fun
* the distance between you and your family because you always in your room studying
* I hate my life…
* what if I don’t get accepted into any univerisities
* and so on… it goes on forever and ever

I am very sure many IB students are going through these issues and crying( just like what I do every saturday)

But try to think in positive way. In my opinion, I think IB is trying to teach us how to cope with stress in the future by letting students experience stress at a young age so you won’t come into piece when your in university or job.